---
layout: post
title: "Mediator"
description: ""
category: notes
tags: [observer, redux]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

# Administrivia

* Read: Facade (185)

# HW 09 Redux

## Question I

What pattern or pattern(s) does SASE use (other than `Observer`)?
Justify your answer.

### The Answer

* Command: binding an *abstract request* to an *abstract receiver*.

## Question II

Make a *Convincing* case for `Command` and `Adapter` both being valid
answers. 

### Answer

* Command: bind an *abstract request* to an *abstract reciever*. 

> John: Kind of got it right? Check on the *internet*. 

```java 
JButton b = ...;
Foo f = ...;

b.setActionListener( new ActionListener() {

  public void actionPerformed( ActionEvent e ) {
    f.dooFoo();
  }

}
);
```

* Adapter: adapt the interface of an existing class to the one that
  the client expects
  * in this case, we'll be adapting the event notification
    mechanism. 

Assume a specialised `JComponent` (`DavePanel`) whose interface we
want to *adapt* to the one that the `(X)Event` notification
mechanism -- which implements `Observer` -- expects ...

```java
class DavePanel extends JPanel implements KeyListener {
  // lots of stuff astroglided

  private void doDavishness() { ... }

  public void keyPressed( KeyEvent e ) {
    doDavishness();
  }

  public void keyReleased() {}
  publid void keyTyped() {}
}
```

Note: there is an assumption that a `DavePanel` would register itself
as its *own* `KeyListener`. 

> Davis: Adapter uses *pre-existing machinery* (the notification stuff),
> and are making outselves compatible with the interface. 

> John: The part about the pluggable adapter was right. 

# Mediator (273)

## Intent

Define an object that encapsulates how a set of objects interact.
`Mediator` promotes loose coupling by keeping objects from
referring to each other explicitly, and it lets you vary their
interactions independently. 

## Initial Comments

__May be the most *abused* of all DPs!__

What makes OOP OOP is the *interaction between* objects in the
system. That interaction is usually defined by the behaviour of
particular objects -- more so when the number of kinds of
interacting objects is small. When the number of types becomes
larger, it may make for poor design to encumber classes with
concepts outside their __core abstraction__. 

> Davis: What we're getting at is: where should we localise
> behaviours that don't belong in a particular class? 

In that case, *where should those behaviours be localised?*

One possibility is a `Mediator`. 

However, the existence of the `Mediator` pattern is not an excuse for
inadequately factoring responsibilities into appropriate classes. It's
all too easy to cross the line and create an _Evil God Object_TM. 

> Davis: God objects are an athama to OOP. What characterises a God
> Object is that it tries to control everything. The idea of OOP is that
> each object has a well-defined responsibility. The idea of
> decentralised control. God Objects are the quissentence of
> decentralised control.

## Example: good use of `Mediator`

Consider the humble password dialogue. 

![image of a password dialogue with fields Username and Password and
Okay/Cancel buttons]()

* We have... 
  * text widget // displays a status message ["Please login, my
    brother.."]
  * two text fields
    - username
    - password // disabled until something has been entered for a
      username
  * two buttons
    - OK      // disabled until both a username and password have been
      entered
      * when selected, the domain model will verify the username and
        password match. If so, the dialgoue vanishes, otherwise the
["Please Login, my dear Bro..."] message is replaced by, "Invalid
User/Password, my dear". 
    - CANCEL  // clears the text fields and resets the widget's message
      to "Please Login, my dear Bro..."

### Observations

* From a reusability perspective, it would be silly to...
  * encumber the text fields with knowledge of each other
  * encumber the buttons with knowledge of text fields
  * &etc. 

Why? Becuase the GUI widgets __should__ be reusable and not specific to
a password dialogue. 

# Senior Project

1. Presentation
  * lasts between 30-45 minutes (which you will WISH would be 3
    hours/Years)
2. Interested in how this works 
