---
layout: post
title: "Proxy (3)"
description: ""
category: notes
tags: [project, homework, redux]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

# Administrivia

# Exam Friday night: DIFFERENT BUILDING & ROOM!

# Arithmetic Expression Tree Visitor HW solution redux

* and a warning

* His example doesn't lend itself to being parallelised. It's implicitly serially-based, since the thing needs to happen in sequential order (passing things to each other). 
	* Simple solution: pass parameters around. 
* He thinks that typically, `Visitor`s don't perform jobs that *can* be parallelised. 

Stack frame doesn't increase in size from passing them in through parameters, since they're both local variables (and both passed through the stack). 

* Warning: Not looking for something that does the same *kind* of job, is looking for osmething that implements the pattern. 
	- Making the tree have an evaluate function isn't an example of a `Visitor`. 
* Be sure that we're doing the stuff we're being *asked* to do. 

# Term Project Ideas

* Re-envision a programmer's editor. 

* Anti-goal: Clone an existing editign paradigm.
* Goal: Come up with a newer, *better* way to present information that would be of interest to a programmer
	- design a new, programmer-enabling way of entering and presenting code and related information. 

Form 10 teams, with 5 members. Brainstorm ideas for how this super-spectacular ching chong should work. 

Ideas due Monday. (with Deliverable format). 

## Ideas

* Touch screen augmentation
	- Some things are crap to do on a keyboard/mouse. 
		- May be better done on a touch screen
* UML/Local variables tab
	- Drag/drop variables to parameters (drop zone for those)
* To do: write a program and see what things might be better to do with touches/annoying

* Increase accessibility of programming to those with reduced mobility. 

* one-handed programming 
	- use a mouse
 
* Contextually aware-docs/examples
	* When you stop coding, usually looking at similar code or documentation
	* Be aware of similar design patterns/what might work for what you're doing. 

# Text editor, or an IDE? 

Didn't ask for IDE. Aksed for a Programmer's Code editor. Doesn't mean it can't do cool things, just that it's not meant to be an "integrated Dev Environment". 
