---
layout: post
title: "Observer"
description: ""
category: notes
tags: [observer, homework]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

# Administrivia

* Read: Mediator (273)
* Read: undoiKPN.pdf (google for PDF) "undo in an interactive system"

# Observer (293) cont.

## How many `Subject`s can an `Observer` observer?

* When an `Observer` can watch more than one `Subject`
	* it must abe able to distinguish *which* `Subject` is the source of a notification
		- one way to accomplish this is to pass a reference to the `Subject` as part of the notification. 
	* could also use distinct notification methods [ more later -- SASE blah blah ]

## What happens with a `Client` performs several state changing operations on a `Subject`? 

* If we don't do something to prevent it => we will get a notification cascade. 
	- each and every op will cause *all* of the `Observer`s to be notified
		* this *may* be desirable
		* in many cases, (if not most) it is not desirable because it is inefficient

* The `Observer`s may only need to be notified once the *sequence* of ops is completed.
	- the `Client` will need to have a mechanism by which it can inform the `Subject` that it is done issuing commands and thus it is "safe" for the `Subject` to notify its `Observer`s.
	
* con: the `Client` must be aware of the fact it is interacting with an *observable* object
* con: requires the *programmer* to remember to call `notifyObserversNow()`
	- easy to forget to do it
* pro: avoids the need to do many notifications when one would suffice

### Need to Avoid Cycles

When A is observed by B, B by C, and C by A, we have a _cycle_.

* must ensure that any change to A|B|C doesn't result in an endless cycle of updates

### Java note

Java has a class `Observable` [implements the machinery to maintain an `Observer` list and handle notifications] and an interface `Observer` to make it simpler to implement the pattern. Alas, it's not very useful... because Java doesn't support multiple class inheritance. 

> Davis: Your thing would have to be `Observable` as its base class. 

### A variation: SASE

Self-Addressed Stamped Envelope

Goal: eliminate some of the inefficiencies in the `Observer` pattern

#### Stock Observer pattern

| Stock Observer | SASE |
| -------------- | ---- |
| 1. an `Observer` registers itself with the `Subject` | register as an `Observer` of the `Subject` by providing 4 items [1] |
| 2. the `Subject`'s state changes [send *changed* to itself] | some aspect of the `Subject` changes [send a *triggerEvent:* to itself] |
| 3. send an update to all `Observer`s | send the "letters" that are associated with that particular kind of event | 
| 4. the `Observer` receives the update, and determines whether or not it is of interest [2] | execute _message_ with the _details_ | 

* [1]: 4 items needed
	- _receiver_ (the `Observer` itself) -- who I am
	- _event_ (the aspect of the `Subject` of interest) -- what happened
	- _message_ ("selector" - identifies which operation the `Subject` should invoke upon the `Observer`) -- what you should tell me to do 
	- _details_ (the parameters that should accompany the message) -- the details of what I should do 
* [2]: The `Observer` determines if something is interesting by either examining the supplied arguments or querying the `Subject` (depending on if it's a _push_ or _pull_ model)

##### SASE advantages over the stock `Observer` pattern

* no spurious updates
	- only notified things you're _specifically_ interested in
* no `update notification` interpreter
	- the `Observer` _has specified_ the _selector_ and _details_ at the time of registration. 
	- makes for simple `Observer` code -- no need to test and decide how to respond to `update notification`

# HW 9 Part I 

1. What pattern or patterns does SASE use (other than `Observer`)? Justify your answer

# Example: the humble `JButton` -- NOT RELATED TO Part I

In order to make a `JButton` do something, one must add an `ActionListener`

* a single `JComponent` (of which `JButton` is an example) may have *multiple* `Listener`s. 

What pattern is being used here? `Observer`

What's the `Observer` and what's the `Subject`? 

* The `ActionListener` is the `Observer`
* the `JButton` is the `Subject`

What pattern, if any, is the `ActionListener` implementing? 

* `Command`
* `Adapter`
	- Why? 

# HW 9 Part II

Make a convincing case for `Command` and `Adapter` both being valid answers. 

# Term Project: next generation programmer's editor

Font terms

* kerning
* leading -- pronounced "/ˈlɛdɪŋ/"

2 factors that should be taken into account when looking into font metric-related things. 
