---
layout: post
title: An Introduction to Design Patterns 
tagline: And a look at Factory Method
categories: notes
tags: factory
---
{% include JB/setup %}

# Administrivia - 28 August 2013
None today 

# DP Background
## How to choose DPs
1. consider *how* DPs solve design problems
2. scan the intents section of the book
3. study how patterns interrelate
4. study patterns of like purpose
5. examine causes of redesign
6. consider what should be variable in your design

## Aspects That Vary
??
## How to use DPs
1. Read the pattern once through for an overview
2. go back and study the *Structure*, *Participants*, & *Collaborators*
sections in the book
3. look at the source code section to see concrete implementations
4. choose name for the pattern participants that are meaningful in
**your** application content
5. design classes and interfaces ( *not* implement - that's later )
6. define application specific names for the operations in the patterns
7. implement those operations to carry out the responsibilities &
collaborations in the pattern.

## Warning! Danger! Achtung Bewahr ja doch!
> "Design patterns should not be applied indiscriminately. Often, they
achieve flexibility by introducing additional levels of indirection;
That can complicate your design and/or cost you some performance. A
design pattern should only be applied when the flexibility it affords is
actually needed."

# Factory Method (107)
## Intent
Define an interface for creating an object, but let subclasses decide
which to instantiate. FM lets a class defer instantiation to subclasses.

*Idea*: avoid dependencies on a particular class by avoiding direct
calls to a constructor; instead, we want to promote dependency on a
*type*. 

## AKA
**Virtual constructor** - in C++ (pre 11) and Java, constructors are
*not* methods, and cannot be overridden. In C++, the keyword **virtual**
is used to indicate a method that can be overridden. This pattern allows
us to effectively "fake" an overridable constructor.

## Exercise
Q: name two commonly used java methods that return a new Object.

* new, clone ? 
* NEW is wrong 

A: 

* `toString()`
* `clone()`
* `iterator()`
* ...

## Overview 
In order to be a FM, the method *must*

1. return a new object
2. return a new instance of a *type*
	i.e., something multiple classes might implement
3. [could ultimately be] implemented by several classes

## Case study: Java
Consider the following Java entities: 

`class javax.swing.BorderFactory`
> "Factory class for vending standard border objects. Whenever possible,
this factory will handout references to shared border instances."

`class java.util.Array`'s method `List<T> asList(T...a)`
> "Returns a fixed-size list, backed by the specific array."

`interface java.lang.iterable`'s operation `Iterator<T>
iterator()`
> "Returns an iterator over a set of elements of type T." 

* An operation is an abstract request (from an interface), while a method
is a specific implementation of that operation.

`class Object`'s method `String toString()`
> "Returns a string representation of an object."

